---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "utilities_local_directory Resource - terraform-provider-utilities"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The utilities_local_directory resource manages a local directory on the filesystem, ensuring it exists with specified attributes like permissions, ownership, and management status.
  Managed vs Unmanaged: Directories created by this resource are considered managed. Pre-existing directories are automatically marked as unmanaged.Force Deletion: The force attribute can be set to true to remove unmanaged directories during the destroy phase.Permissions and Ownership: The resource allows setting file permissions in octal format (e.g., 0755) and specifying the user and group ownership.
  Note: This resource is currently not supported on Windows systems.
---

# utilities_local_directory (Resource)

The **utilities_local_directory** resource manages a local directory on the filesystem, ensuring it exists with specified attributes like permissions, ownership, and management status.

- **Managed vs Unmanaged**: Directories created by this resource are considered _managed_. Pre-existing directories are automatically marked as _unmanaged_.
- **Force Deletion**: The **force** attribute can be set to true to remove unmanaged directories during the destroy phase.
- **Permissions and Ownership**: The resource allows setting file permissions in octal format (e.g., **0755**) and specifying the user and group ownership.

**Note**: This resource is currently **not supported** on Windows systems.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "utilities_local_directory" "example" {
  force = true
  group = "root"
  path  = "/tmp/test"
  permissions = "0755"
  user = "root"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `path` (String) The absolute path to the directory to be managed.

### Optional

- `force` (Boolean) Controls the behavior during the destroy phase:
- **true**: The directory will be forcibly deleted even if it is unmanaged.
- **false**: Unmanaged directories will not be deleted.
- `group` (String) Specifies the group owner of the directory. Defaults to "root".
- **Format**: Provide the group name (e.g., "group1").
- `permissions` (String) Defines the permissions for the directory in octal format (e.g., "0755"). Defaults to "0755".
- **Usage**: This can be used to ensure specific read, write, and execute permissions for the directory.
- `user` (String) Specifies the user owner of the directory. Defaults to "root".
- **Format**: Provide the username (e.g., "user1").

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the resource, representing the full path to the directory.
- `managed` (Boolean) Indicates whether the directory is managed by this resource:
- **true**: The directory was created by this resource.
- **false**: The directory pre-existed and is considered unmanaged.
